Jehovah's Witnesses are concerned for the welfare of two women
imprisoned in Baku by the secret police.
Elina Zakarchenko is a disabled woman
and Valida Jean-Braelova is caring for her age mother.
We now turn to Mr. Luca Tofoli, a human rights specialist
who has worked directly in promoting the human rights of Jehovah's Witnesses
in Azerbaijan.
Mr. Tofoli, why are these women imprisoned in Azerbaijan?
Well, they are imprisoned because they were sharing
arrangements from the scriptures in their public ministry
and they had with them a brochure for parents called
Teach Your Children.
They did absolutely nothing illegal.
They were doing what Jehovah's Witnesses do every day
all over the world.
Jehovah's Witnesses are a registered religion in Baku.
They are not banned.
Is this a recent problem?
Well, this is not a recent problem.
Jehovah's Witnesses have 19 applications concerning the situation
in Azerbaijan before the European Court of Human Rights.
So they have faced religious persecution in Azerbaijan before.
However, this recent turn of events is shocking.
Two innocent women are being treated like dangerous criminals.
And presently, how are these women doing?
These two women are not doing well.
Physically and psychologically, they are failing.
They are both severely depressed.
We understand that the recross attempted to inquire about their health
but the secret police told them that there was no need
and that the women were fine.
But you know, these two women are being mistreated.
Is there any possibilities to counter the mistreatment?
No, they are not allowed to have visits by friends or family.
They have been denied pastoral visits.
They have even been denied access to a Bible.
And what efforts have you made?
We appealed, but that has not worked.
We requested to have them transferred to house arrest
so at least then they can be at home.
But the court refused.
Through their attorneys, we have applied to the United Nations Work Group
on arbitrary detention, requesting relief.
It is inhuman to disallow medical assistance to a disabled person.
It is our fervent hope that the authorities of Azerbaijan
will reconsider the treatment of Irina Zakarchenko and Validaj Abrailova.
Their imprisonment is a fragrant denial of fundamental human rights
and religious freedom which Azerbaijan has promised that it would respect.
We asked the government to release these innocent women
who are being unjustly imprisoned.
Thank you, Mr. Toffoli.
And I hope you will be successful to alleviate the situation of these two women.